Okay, between videos there I looked at
that error a little bit closer. We're
going to take an opportunity here because
it wasn't exactly what I thought it was
but I'll explain exactly what it was. But
in this video, I'm going to take the
opportunity to show you how to use a
feature branch inside a GitHub. I
created a new task here because this is
a bug that I introduced. What I'm
trying to emulate here is you as a
developer, got a bug report. There's
something that's happening inside of our
production code. I'm using production
side of error code for our Spring
Pet Clinic project. We are getting
this 500 error. Let's say that
somebody opened up a ticket. We're
getting this error and display of owner
and I copied in the relevant part. We
can see in the template owner ownerDetails on line 52. We are throwing an
exception. If I look at the template,
let's come back over here to this on line
52. It is looking for pet type and we can
see that I actually have a little red
squiggly there. Remember I copied
this over owner details directly from
the Spring project. Let's take a closer
look at that right now. So here, they have
pet type and the name is type and not
pet type but type. Come over here.
Let's take a look at our implementation.
Come here your model and get to Pet and
our property a name is petType.
Personally I like that better because I
don't think type is very descriptive, pet
Type is more descriptive so that is not
necessarily wrong or right but that is
my personal preference because I think
that as a better variable name. The
reason things are breaking is that value
is miss named because the template is
looking for this property to be named
type and not petType. So it's not
finding it and that's why it's going
kaboom. What we are going to do is we
are going to create a branch here. So I'm
going to come in here. Right-click.
Go to Git, repository
branches
and let's take a look quick look at that
GitHub tasks.
I'm just going to call this errorDisplayOwner. I'm going to check out that branch.
To fix this problem, I have two
options to be honest. One
I can refactor and rename petType and
have that ramifications go through my
entire project, which I don't want to do.
The simplest one is to come into owner
Details and this should be
like so.
So that will
fix it.
We also have visits. That's not happy so
let's take a look at just going to
expand Pet here
and visits. Let's take a closer look at
that. It should be.. Oh, see? I got a
typo in the word so let's go ahead and
come in here. Refactor rename
to visits. So that was my own fat
fingering of that. Let's come back
over here to ownerDetails.
That squiggly should be going away. Visit
date.
That should be okay so I'm going to go
ahead and restart the Spring project.
IntelliJ might be making mistake there
so we shall see if that claim that
clears up.
We are back up and running. Let's come
back over to Chrome
and do a refresh on this.
And now we can see that good old Michael
Weston is being displayed there. He's got
a name, a pet named, Roscoe. In here, this
is another problem here. We are getting a
pet type so let's take a closer look at
that.
That should be
petType so I should be doing it
toString.
I'm going to take a quick look over
here. We saw a pet type. Take a look at
this guy.
Extends out. I looking at what the Spring
guys did here. NamedEntity.
I'm expecting they have a toString method. Yeah,
they do have toString. So
what's happening here is I don't have a
toString method implemented so I'm
getting the object name so it's where
toString is not implemented. So come in
here
toString.
Actually I just want to return back
the name property like
so. Let's go ahead and cycle this.
Actually I think I got
built tools going so I'm doing a build
on that. By building it, that
triggered Spring Boot DevTools
to reload the project. Let's come back
over here and make sure that is working
now.
And there we go. You can see adding
that to string now fixed that. I am
not seeing any other errors at this
point. So now remember, I created this on
a feature branch so I'm going to come in
here and say Git commit directory and
that was number 65.
I'm going to go ahead and do it commit
and push. What's going to happen is this
pushes up to GitHub. What's going to
be interesting here is that does
push up there. Let's come
back here to the code
and now we can see that I have this
branch here. I want to do a compare
and pull request.
Let's go ahead and add that. I'm going to
create a pull request on this inside of
GitHub, and now we can see that our
Circle CI is running. Typically
what's going to happen in workflow is
I'm going to have one of my co-workers go
and review this, ask it for a review.
Being that, I am an army of one on this
project. I can't do that. But now, we can
see. You just saw that GitHub went to
green and what happened there is my CI
build in Circle CI completed in the
background and now I know that all my
checks pass. If I come in here and show
checks, we can see that Circle CI build
is up and I have a green checkmark next
to it. Now I can come over here. This
shows the changes I made inside of
GitHub. And now I can say review changes
comment.
Just say it looks great. I'm going to submit
a review even though I'm reviewing my
own code. You would not do this typically.
Now what I can do is merge this in to
master. I'm going to go ahead, confirm
the merge,
and I am going to delete that branch
like so.
And now we can see, this is gone
in there and that task has been closed.
It closed automatically because I put
in. I merged it to master and on that
merged to master because I had closes
number 65 in there. That automatically
closed that issue for me inside of
GitHub. Now the last thing I have to do
is come back over here. I'm going to shut
down Spring Boot. I don't need him
right now. Now I want to come back over
here
inside of Git. I want to go to branches
and now I want to check out master again
so I'm going to be returning to master.
The next thing I want to do is come
in here, Repostitory, Branches and this errorDisplayOwner, I'm just going to delete
that branch because I don't need it
anymore. Delete
remote branch.
I just told it also to delete on
origin which it's not going to do
anything because I already did that
inside of GitHub. And now because I made
that change, because I pushed it up, now
I'm on my local master. I need to also
come in here and do it Git pull
to sync up my master from the origin
because these changes were made. This
might be a little bit confusing to you
because I checked in on the branch, push
that up to GitHub, so my changes went in
on the branch on GitHub and I did the
merge to master on GitHub and then when
I switched over to my master, I'm running
locally on my master branch, I had to
tell my GitHub to go and sync up the
changes from master on GitHub. So kind of
a big circle. Kind of went around, but
this is a fairly common workflow where
you do your changes on a feature branch
like that, and then another person would
review them and you see have CI build and stuff
would also run and whatnot. And then now
you're going to come back and get back on
the mainline branch. So there's a
number of different ways to use GitHub. I
just wanted to show you here in this
video how to leverage that. This is a
really nice workflow because now if I come
in here, now on display owner, there's a
lot of information here. We can see that
I had this original exception. I had a
specific branch in there. We can also
see that a code review was done and then
also a specific build on Circle CI ran
against that. So a lot of tracking here.
When you get inside an enterprise
environment, this is all very important
for compliance activities. Because if
you're developing software in a company,
and if they're like a publicly traded
company or healthcare company or
something they are going to have,
processes, procedures, and controls in
place to monitor all these software and
that's being developed. So that this is
all best practices and also how you
write quality software.